001,When the bear woke up that morning, much was the same, but not everything. Something was definitely different.  #1
002,The bear stared intently into his reflection in the mirror. “What is it?” He asked himself. “What’s different? What could it be?”  #2
003,The bear put a hand over his chest and listened, then listened some more. “My heart!” He cried. “Could it be that my heart is /quieter/ than before? I need to see a doctor!”  #3
004,The doctor put the cold, cold stethoscope on the bear’s furry warm chest and listened for a long, long time. The bear was very nervous, but he was very brave, and didn’t say a word as the doctor listened and listened and listened. #4
005,“Well Mr. Bear,” the doctor said, “I happy to tell you there’s nothing wrong with your heart - nothing at all!” The bear looked at him with astonishment. “Perhaps all you need is some exercise!” The doctor continued with a smile.  #5
006,Though the bear hadn’t said anything to the doctor, he was quite upset, quite upset indeed. “Just get some exercise? How condescending!” he cried as he stormed down the street. “Harrumph! Harrrrrumph!” he harrumphed.  #6
007,As the bear huffed back to the bus stop, he noticed a strange, friendly little house in the midst of all the faceless grey skyscrapers. “That’s funny,” the bear said, scratching his furry head, “I’ve been here a hundred times, but I’ve never seen that house before. And what does that hand symbol on the roof mean?”  #7
008,The bear climbed the steep ladder into the house and found it to be more pink on the inside than it was on the outside. Inside, he found an old, even pinker bunny staring at him with a quizzical expression. “Excuse me, good sir,” The bear said, “Where did this house come from? I’ve never seen it before!”  #8
009,“I’ve always been here,” the bunny said, lifting a skinny paw. “It’s just that you’ve never looked for me - until now.” #9
010,“But I wasn’t looking for you,” The bear protested. “Well, something within you certainly was, or else you’d never have found me,” the rabbit replied. “Why don’t you let me see your paw, and perhaps I can help you understand what it is you’re looking for.”  #10
011,The bunny gently held the bear’s paw with both of its soft pink hands and peered intently into the furry brown surface. “Oh!” the bunny exclaimed, “There is a break in your heart line! Very curious! Very curious indeed!”  #11
012,“But that’s horrible!” cried the bear, putting his fuzzy paws to his snout. “It means my heart is broken!” “It doesn’t mean that,” the rabbit said thoughtfully. “Then it means my heart is going to break!” “It doesn’t mean that either,” the rabbit calmly replied.” “Well what does it mean, then?”  #12
013,“It means there is something unresolved in your heart,” the rabbit replied. “It signifies a great opportunity,” the rabbit replied excitedly. As he spoke, the room darkened and tiny stars began to appear in front of his hands. “Do you see these stars? Each of them represents a gap in the night sky, a place where the darkness is not.”  #13
014,“Someday each star will go out and become a part of the sky’s canvas, but not before spreading its light to illuminate its unique truth. That gap in your heart line is there for a reason; it has something important to show you.”  #14
015,“Oh!” the bear exclaimed as a star landed on his little nose. “Well these stars are very magical but I hope my gap shows me what I’m missing soon! I feel beary out of sorts!”  #15
016,“Have patience, bear,” the rabbit said gently, as the stars faded and the lights came back on. “You have found this place, so you have already begun. Keep letting the journey take you where you must go; do not try to force an ending where one does not exist.”   #16
017,The bear left the pink house and made his way to the bus stop, sat down and stared at his paw. “There *is* something wrong with my heart, and I still don’t know what it is, and now the rabbit tells me it’s trying to teach me something, and I don’t know what that is either. I’m so confused!”  #17
018,The bus was quite full, so the bear took a seat next to an old tortoise. “Mr. bear, do you know where this is going?” He asked. “Well, I wish I knew!” The bear cried out. “Something is wrong with my heart and there’s a gap in my heart line and I feel so out of sorts…”  #18
019,“No no no,” the tortoise said, laughing merrily. “I meant if you knew where this bus was going.” “Oh,” said the bear sheepishly, looking away, “it’s going to the beach, I think.” “Oh good,” the tortoise said, “No need to be blue - you’ve made my day, that’s exactly where I’m trying to go.”  #19
020,“I wish I knew exactly where I’m trying to go,” The bear said wistfully. “Why don’t you come with me, bear?” The tortoise replied. “I’m just going to watch the sunset, and you sound like you could use a little company.”  #20
021,“Oh!” the bear said, a little embarrassed, as he always was when faced with an invitation. “Well, that’s very kind of you, but, er, I should probably, er, go home and…” he stumbled, but suddenly he looked up with resolve. “Actually, why not? I’m on a journey after all!”  #21
022,The bear and the tortoise got off the bus and started walking up the hill towards the beach. The bear huffed and puffed as he followed his new friend. “Whew!” He said. “I didn’t know tortoises could climb that fast!” The tortoise laughed. “And I didn’t know bears were so susceptible to tired stereotypes!”  #22
023,As they made their way, the tortoise asked the bear, “so what is troubling you, bear?” “Well, that’s just it,” The bear replied. “I mean it’s no one thing, but it’s also so many things, and sometimes I feel all empty, and other times I’m overwhelmed.”  #23 
024,“I mean, I don’t know if I’ll ever meet the right bear, or find the right place to live, or…” the bear continued. “Those are indeed hard questions, bear,” the tortoise replied. “But for now try to be in the moment and look at this beautiful sunset. Look at those amazing colors. You can always go back to your worries, but there will never be a sunset quite like this one.”  #24
025,As the light faded, the bear continued, "I try, I really try, but it's so hard to let all of these thoughts go. I feel like they're all so important, even though sometimes they just feel like a loud buzzing inside my head." "They are all important, bear," the tortoise replied, "those questions and decision will have significant impact on the progress of your life. But still, they are not *you* - they are your thoughts, and they are your emotional reactions to those thoughts."  #25
026,"Thank you, thank you," the bear said, as they parted ways at the bus stop. "I needed that, and I'll think about what you said." The tortoise smiled. "It was my pleasure. You're a good bear, you just need to get out of your head and see a sunset a little more often."  #26
027,The bear had a lot to think about, and decided to skip the bus and take a walk in the cool night air. It started to rain but he was prepared with his trusty umbrella. In truth, it wasn’t raining very hard, but sometimes the bear put the umbrella up anyway in an abundance of caution, especially when he was feeling a little anxious.  #27
028,As he walked some writing spray-painted on a wall caught his eye, and he stopped to take a closer look. "No matter how lonely, eh?” the bear thought to himself. “Well I wonder what it could be offering to *my* imagination!”  #28
029,“But I’m not lonely, am I?” The bear asked himself. “How can I feel lonely when I have so many friends? And yet…” his voice trailed off inside his head.  #29
030,As the bear let himself back into his house he continued the conversation with himself. "I think being alone is different from being lonely. Besides, I like spending time by myself. I feel so safe here," the bear said, as felt the warmth of his little home, and did his usual second check to make sure his door was locked.  #30
031,The bear crawled into his comfy bed as the rain started in earnest again; he listened to the sound of the raindrops against his window and thought about all he had been through that day. “So much happened today,” he thought to himself, “I really feel like I’ve embarked on a journey. Maybe I’ll find out what that gap in my heart line means after all. There’s so much to process, though, I need to talk about this all with some old friends who know me to understand what it all means.” And with that, he drifted off to sleep.  #31
032,As he drifted into dreams, the tortoise’s head appeared in giant form. “BEAR!” the head boomed. “BE WARY OF CHANGE FOR CHANGE’S SAKE. RESIST!” The bear woke with a start. “What on earth could that mean?” He thought. “I thought I was supposed to make a change!”  #32
033,In the calm of the  morning, the bear thought about his next steps over a hot cup of coffee. “I think I should go see Cooksie and Mr. Peanut. They always give me good perspective on whatever’s going on.”  #33
034,The bear decided to take the light rail to see his friends. As he went down into the station on the escalator, he felt the “whoosh” of the air from a train pulling into the station, which put a little smile on his face. “I so love the train,” he thought.  #34
035,“The tricky thing about seeing Cooksie and Mr. Peanut,” he thought to himself as the train pulled into the station, “is remembering which one is which. It’s a good thing I like them both so much!”  #35
036,While he had trouble telling them apart, he had no trouble at all recognizing their rather unique house. “The other tricky thing is getting to the front door!”  #36
037,Inside, the cats were draped all over each other and finishing each other’s sentences as usual. “Bear,” Cooksie said (or was it Mr. Peanut?), “what’s wrong? You seem to be” Mr. Peanut continued, as Cooksie interrupted “out of sorts!” completing the thought.  #37
038,“I guess I’m sad,” The bear said. “You’re not sad,” Mr. Peanut said (or was It Cooksie?), adorably climbing onto a shelf. “You’re bear,” Cooksie said, rolling over onto his back, “you’re just…” “feeling sad,” Mr. Peanut interrupted. “The two are not the same.”  #38
039,“Isn’t that just semantics?” The bear asked. “In one sense, yes,” Mr. Peanut said thoughtfully, “but in another, more important sense, no,” Cooksie continued. “Indeed, your identity is so much more than your emotions. You are the one who experiences your emotions. So you must ask, then,” Peanut said, “who are you, bear?” Cooksie completed.  #39
040,"Then I don't know who I am!”, the bear cried, throwing his arms up in exasperation, steam rising from his forehead.  “I mean sure, I know feeling sad doesn't define me, because I'm not always sad," he continued, calming down a little. "I suppose, then, I am the sum total of all of my thoughts and feelings, from my whole life? Is that what you're getting at?" he asked.   #40
041,"Dearest bear, you’re on the right track,” Cooksie replied, "But that's not quite it. Even if you had some different thoughts or feelings yesterday," Peanut interrupted, "or the day before," Cooksie continued,  "you would still be you. You are not your feelings, not one of them, not all of them.” “Yes bear," Mr. Peanut said, with some gravity, "you are the one that watches."  #41
042,“The one that watches,” the bear said thoughtfully. “I guess that’s true - whatever happens, whatever I feel, I’m always there, watching. Then right now I’m watching myself feel sad. But what can I do to change those feelings?”  #42
043,“Ah, to influence what you are watching,” Cooksie started, “is much more difficult,” Mr. Peanut completed. “First you must find the source of that sadness.” “And to see that source,” Cooksie continued, “you must understand that there are forces pulling at your heart…” “…and creating a space inside,” Peanut interrupted, as the two pulled at a heart pillow to demonstrate.  #43
044,“You mean there’s a gap in my heart and I need to find out what it is? I already knew that!” The bear gruffed and puffed, imagining the hole in his heart and getting frustrated again. "And what about these forces pulling at my heart? They sound dangerous!"  #44
045,“Perhaps it is a gap, perhaps it is just a room in your heart you have not yet furnished,” Cooksie said, and as he spoke the heart pillow opened up into a little house, where an empty room appeared surrounded by a sparkly glow. “The heart does not have holes, per se, but rather absences, of what was once or what is yet to be,” Mr. Peanut broke in, “and those forces will not tear your heart apart.” “The heart is a muscle; it can grow,” Cooksie said, completing the thought.  #45
046,“Oh!” The bear said. “I like that a lot better. You know, I've had a recurring dream where I find a room in my house I'd never seen before, completely empty, and I start thinking about all the things I could do with it! Sounds like I need to go get some furniture!” the bear smiled.  #46
047,“Dearest bear, do not be quick to fill up the empty spaces with more emptiness,” Cooksie said gently. “Yes bear, you cannot fill a hole with a bigger hole. That kind of void can be its own prison.” Peanut continued, thoughtfully, “Take your time. Make it a space that you’ll want to live in.”  #47
048,The bear scratched his chin. "But wait, am I not just the one who watches, watching that space?” he asked, getting a bit lost in all of the philosophical talk. “Why should it make any difference what I do with it?"  #48
049,"No friend -- that is the space you live in -- your heart. Those rooms are your home,” Cooksie said, “It is from there that you do the watching.” “Care for them well,” Mr. Peanut continued, “and make them the most comfortable home you can.”  “And you know,” Cooksie added, as the little bear looked into the glowing new space in his heart-house, “when you let someone else inside, part of them lives there with you too."  #49
050,Mr. Peanut waxed poetic: "One of your ancestors, Rumi Bear, once wrote, 'in your light, I learn how to love; in your beauty, how to make poetry - you live inside my heart, so deep inside my heart, where noone sees you, but sometimes I do, and that sight becomes this art.'” As he spoke, an image of the Sufi poet appeared above his paw.  #50
051,“And who," said Cooksie, "or what," added Peanut, "will be that light inside for you, Bear?" As they spoke, the image of the poet glowed and hovered between their outstretched paws. "For Rumi it was a higher power," Cooksie continued, "But of course that is not the only way," Peanut said thoughtfully.  #51
052,“Stop!” The bear said suddenly, putting his hands to the sides of his head. “It’s too much! I mean, thank you for all of your wisdom, but I have so much to think about! Oh, and it’s so late, I need to get home!” He ran out of the house, his furry little arms raised to shield him from the wind, or perhaps to hide some tiny bear tears in his eyes.  #52
053,That night, the bear was haunted by troubled dreams, despite wearing his warmest, comfiest pajamas. He dreamt he was trapped inside a raindrop (or was it a teardrop?) with only a handful of glowing stars to keep him company. Whenever one would come close, and he would reach out to hold it, it would slide away from his paw and back into the darkness.  #53
054,The next morning, the bear felt rather anxious from all the thoughts from the night before, and he munched on a piece of toast to calm his nerves. “I feel like today I should just go for a long walk to clear my head.”  #54
055,The bear knew it would be cold outside, but it was still colder and greyer than he expected. Despite wearing his favorite warm, fluffy scarf, the wind cut right into his bones. “It’s so cold!” He exclaimed. “It feels like it might snow - how unusual for this time of year!”  #55
056,Overwhelmed by the cold and the wind, the bear decided to rest for a bit on a bench. “Whew!” He thought, “This cold is really something! And it feels like no matter which way I turn, the wind is shifting to blow right in my face!”  #56
057,A few minutes passed, and when the bear looked up he saw an older mouse shuffling past the bench with a cane. She walked slowly, with a slight limp and a hunched back, yet to the bear’s surprise there was a slight smile on her face and a sparkle in her eye. In fact, she seemed to almost glow with happiness. “How can she be so happy,” the bear thought to himself, “with so many troubles?”  #57
058,To the bear’s great surprise, the mouse sat down next to him on the bench and lifted her feet onto the seat. “Whooo!” She cried, an utterance expressing relief but somehow laced with glee. Seated, she was even smaller than the bear had expected, and held out one paw to keep hold of her cane.   #58
059,The mouse squinted her little eyes and smiled.“You do not have to be good,” she blurted out suddenly, with no warning, and to nobody in particular, causing the bear to look up in surprise.  #59
060,“You do not have to walk on your knees for a hundred miles through the desert, repenting,” she continued, turning to look at him, and the bear began to realize that her words were meant just for him. He thought of his own desert, and her words came to life in his mind’s eye. #60
061,“You only have to let the soft animal of your body love what it loves,” the mouse continued, as the bear fell even deeper into her words.  #61
062,“Tell me about despair,” she continued, “yours—“ tapping at his pudgy belly with her cane, her eyes twinkling merrily, “and I will tell you mine,” gesturing to her cane and her tiny tired legs.  #62
063,“Meanwhile the world goes on,” the mouse continued.  #63
064,“Meanwhile the sun, and the clear pebbles of the rain, are making their way across the landscapes.”  #64
065,“Over the prairies and the deep trees, the mountains and the rivers.”  #65
066,“Meanwhile the wild geese, high in the clean blue air,” the mouse continued, “are heading home again.”  #66
067,“Whoever you are, no matter how lonely, the world offers itself to your imagination.”  #67
068,“Calls to you like the wild geese, harsh and exciting…”  #68
069,“Over and over announcing your place,” the mouse intoned, “in the family of things.” She took a long breath and smiled at the bear, whose eyes were closed with a soft smile on his face, lost in a dream of her words.  #69
070,“That was the poem ‘Wild Geese’ by Mary Oliver,” the mouse said, as the bear emerged from his dream. “I find it always helps me when I’m having a hard time. I thought it might help you too.”  #70
071,“It does, it really does,” the bear said sincerely. “I’m glad,” the mouse smiled, “and my legs are feeling better again, so I’ll be on my way. I wish you well, little bear.” And with that, she sauntered off, as quickly as she had arrived.  #71
072,The bear sat for a moment, scratching his head and smiling softly to himself, playing the scenes from the poem back through his head. “How could such a simple thing as a poem touch me so deeply?” He wondered. “Anyway, it’s time for me to get back to my walk, I’ve been sitting here for far too long!”  #72
073,The bear strode off into the day, a smile on his face and his heart full of new purpose. “I wonder what the rest of the day will bring!” He said to himself  #73
074,But quickly the air grew cold, the sharp wind cutting harshly into the bear’s delicate fur. Dry leaves shook in the trees above him, and the bear stood stoically against the wind, feeling very alone again.  #74
075,As the bear walked along, feeling low, he noticed a tiny grey dog the color of the somber sky, looking a little confused, with no obvious companion nearby. “Why, that’s just like the dog from my daydream just now, when I was listening to the poem!” He remarked to himself. “Hey little one,” he called out to the dog, “are you lost? Are you lost like me?”  #75
076,To his surprise, the little dog came right up to him and climbed into his arms. He had a collar but no nametag. "Whose dog are you?" the bear asked, half to the dog and half to himself. "Maybe I should walk around a bit and see if I can find your owner."  #76
077,“Excuse me, good sir,” the bear said to a nearby horsaffe, “is this your dog?” “It’s not,” the horsaffe said, “but it seems very content with you!”  As if on cue, the little dog snuggled even closer into the bear’s warm fur.  #77
078,The bear then came across an alligator who was looking all about, as if he was searching for something. “Excuse me,” the bear said, “are you perhaps looking for this dog?” “Er… ummm… yes, perhaps I am,” he said, peering through his little spectacles, and not sounding entirely sure of himself, “I think that is my dog!” The little dog looked at him closely, showing neither fear nor enthusiasm. “Could this really be the dog’s companion?” The bear thought to himself.  #78
079,“Well let’s go home then, Tata,” the alligator said, hooking an old leather leash to the little dog’s collar as the bear set him down. The dog kept looking back at the bear, and he couldn’t help but scratch his head, wondering at this unlikely pair. The alligator shuffled away, and instantly the bear felt the loss of the warm presence that had snuggled so easily into his heart. “I miss the little pup already,” the bear said softly to himself.  #79
080,As the alligator walked away with the little dog, the bear put his hand to his chin and pondered for a moment. “When that little dog snuggled into my arms I felt such pure love,” he thought to himself, “and just like that it’s gone. Is that what I’m missing? Is that what I’m looking for? Am I happier for that experience, or more sad now that it has passed?” He sighed a long bear sigh.“What a tumultuous day it has been. Maybe I just need to go home and relax with a nice cup of tea.”  #80
081,Finally at home, the bear settled into his favorite chair and thought back on his day with a warm mug in his little paw. “So much has happened today, and I’ve learned so much,” the bear thought, “but I still feel so lonely! Though it’s that funny kind of lonely where I just want to be by myself with my tea. Hmmm, how strange that is. I sure do miss that little dog, though - he warmed my heart right up. ”  #81
082,The next morning the bear woke up with astringent cup of coffee and a sense of conviction. “I’m not going to just mope around the house today. I’m going to call my friend Jasper and head out to the social meadow. I think I might find some answers there. Haarrumph!” He harrumphed.  #82
083,“Thanks for meeting up with me, Jasper,” the bear said, glad to see his old friend. “Would you join me for a walk through the social meadow?” Jasper quietly nodded in agreement and they were on their way.  #83
084,“Why the social meadow, bear?” Jasper asked as they neared the entrance. “Well,” The bear replied, “I feel like it’s a good way to stay connected to my friends.” Jasper looked skeptical but stayed silent.  #84
085,"Look, there's Esperanza, it looks like she found a new friend!" the bear said, pointing to a couple on a  nearby hill. Jasper coiled himself up and craned his neck to get a look.  #85
086,"See there's Neema and Orhan, and they’re waving at us!" The bear said with excitement as he saw his friends. Jasper felt something wasn’t quite right, and stuck out his tongue to get a better read on the situation.  #86
087,“Oh,” the bear said, with a sudden heaviness. “They’re just taking selfies.  I guess we should keep walking.” Jasper looked at his friend with compassion, having known this for some time now. Neema and Orhan hadn’t even noticed the bear coming right up to them and continued posing with the sunset behind them.  #87
088,As they walked away the bear's friend Marcus caught up with them. "Have you heard?" he cried, "It turns out eating pine needles can cure depression!" as he waved his arms, twitched his ears, and tapped his toes excitedly. The bear didn't even turn to look at him; in a tired voice he said "Umm, that doesn't sound right, Marcus. I wish you would verify these things with more reliable sources." Jasper turned to look at Marcus but said nothing, concerned about the bear's growing despondence.  #88
089,Marcus’ friend Erfan, hearing about the pine needles, rushed up to join the group, flapping his wings with excitement. "Yeah I heard that also! Tell me more!” Jasper, unable to stay quiet any longer, burst out “Bear, remember why we came here? To connect with your friends?” The bear ignored them all and kept walking.  #89
090,"And what's going on over by that tree?” Jasper asked. They walked up to the tree to see a woman sobbing heavily, her arm over her eyes. "She must be having a hard time,” the bear said with compassion. #90
091,"But why are those other creatures throwing eggs at her, but also crying?" Jasper asked, horrified at their behavior. "Uh…” the bear said slowly, becoming increasingly aware of the ugliness of the situation, “I guess they're having a hard time too?"  #91
092,"Bear, You said you wanted to see your friends - but you haven't seen them at all.  You've seen some caricature." “Yes” " And even the ones who wanted to be seen - needed to be seen - were attacked." #92
093,"This place is awful," Jasper says, looking back along their path. "Yes," the bear responds, putting his little paw to his chin. "It is." "Can we just go to a café?" "Yes, let's do that." #93
094,They sit down for a cup, and talk and laugh. The bear feels better. #94
095,"Can I talk to you about something that's on my mind," Jasper asks. "Sure, the bear says." "It's my mom. She really wants me to get married but she doesn't understand what I'm struggling with. There are things I don't feel comfortable with, and it's hard to talk to her about it."#95
096,"Oh," the bear said, "Sometimes when I have trouble with my mom, I talk about a shared experience we had. For example, one time when she was giving me a hard time about working so much, I told her to think about the time that…" #96
097,"Bear," Jasper said, stopping him."What is it, Jasper?" the bear said. "I'm trying to tell you what's going on. I know you mean well bringing up your own story but I really just want you to listen." #97
098,"But I was only trying to help," the bear said, getting a little red and flustered. #98
099,"Bear, think about when you go to your favorite pie shop. You like pie, don't you?" Jasper said, softening his tone. "I love pie," the bear said, not understanding where this was going. #99
100,"Well, when the baker is making that delicious pie, do you tell him how they should make their pie?" "No, of course not!" #100
101,"And why is that?" "Well," the bear said, still flustered,"I came there to have their wonderful pie, not to tell them how to make it! They're the experts!" #101
102,"And who, bear, is the expert on my own experience?" Jasper asked, smiling now. #102
103,"Um, well," the bear stuttered, confused, "You are, but you were asking me for help!" #103
104,"I wasn't, bear," Jasper continued gently. "I asked if I could tell you what was going on. I wanted you to listen, and hear my story." #104
105,Suddenly the little bear felt very little indeed, as though he were just a few inches tall. "Oh," the bear said, and "Oh" again, more quietly. "I'm so sorry, Jasper, I never really thought about it. I really thought I was helping…" #105
106,"I know you did, dear bear, and that's why I'm telling you now." #106
107,"I'm sorry, my friend, please continue with your story." Jasper continued his story, and the bear, perhaps for the first time, listened carefully, asking a few questions, hugging his friend at times, but mostly just listening to his experience. Jasper talked, and cried, and eventually smiled.#107
108,They stepped out of the café and stopped for a goodbye hug."Thank you, bear, for listening."  "Of course," the bear said, "and thank you for showing me how." The bear was still embarrassed at how he hadn't listened before, but was excited about the possibility of becoming better. #108
109,As he stepped outside the café, he saw a little dog that reminded him of the pup he had met earlier in the park. "what's going on, little dog, did you get lost too?"  The dog just looked up at him with his curious eyes. #109
110,"Well, it's nice to meet you, little dog, but I'm off to take a long walk," the bear said cordially. #110
111,As the bear began to walk away, the little dog ran over and started trotting right along beside him. "Are you coming with me, little one?" the bear said with a smile. "Well, I guess I'm not going to stop you." He pumped his arms, walking along at four and half miles per hour, a rapid pace he liked most. The dog looked down at the ground, deep in thought. #111
112,After a good brisk walk the bear noticed he was at the entrance to the famous Cave  of Mirrors.  "Oh I've heard of this place," the bear said, "it's supposed to be good for introspection. What do you say, little dog?" The little dog was silent, and looked up at the cave with curiosity. #112
113,As soon as he entered the cave, the bear found himself in front of what looked like a mirror, but reflected his form as though it were made out of blocks, with a big blocky head. ”Well isn’t that interesting!” The bear cried with a smile. #113
114,The next mirror showed him as a stringy noodle bear, with his body, arms, and head all soggy and bendy like wet noodles. ”Well this is all very neat, but how does this help with self reflection?” the bear said out loud. #114
115,“It’s just trying to tell you that you are not your outward form, as a starting point,” the dog said, a little frustrated. #115
116,The bear was shocked to hear the dog speak, and sat down in surprise, “you can talk?” The bear said. “but you’re a dog!” #116
117,“And you’re a bear,” the dog chuffed. “But why haven’t you said anything before?” The bear asked. “I haven’t really had anything to say,” the dog replied with a little sniff. #117
118,“hmm, well, ok then,” the bear mumbled, struggling to get his bearings, which can be hard for a bear. “can you tell me more about what this is supposed to mean?” #118
119,As he spoke, the noodle bear started turning into a snake, or a set of snakes, with all the arms and body separating out into different serpents, one of them winding around his neck. “The snake signifies that change is inevitable,” the dog said #119
120,“Uh oh,” the bear said, “that sounds a little scary!” “Well,” the dog continued, “Change doesn’t necessarily mean something negative. It can be an opportunity for unburdening the past.” #120
121,“Ah,” the bear said, “How interesting. The past is a little scary for me too. Say, how do you know so much about these symbols?” “I’ve been studying these patterns for a long time,” the dog said, “I’m a therapy dog, you see.” #121
122,As they continued walking they arrived at a room full of jars, with no mirrors at all, and just a dull wall. “What is this?” the bear asked. “I don’t see any reflections at all here.” The dog looked curious but said nothing. #122
123,Tentatively, the bear opened a jar which seemed to call out to him. An image of a small boy appeared in the wall. Now it was the dog’s turn to sit down in surprise. “Why, you were not always a bear! You were once a boy!” #123
124,“Yes,” the bear said sadly, turning away. “That was long ago.” A small tear appeared in the corner of his eye. #124
125,"But what happened?"  the dog asked. "I had to protect myself. It was too dangerous back there." tiny boy in military helmet, bombs #125
126,"So I became a bear." boy getting into bear suit, outside house. #126
127,"Bears are great survivors - very self-sufficient, and nobody messes with them, despite their soft fur."#127
128,It made the bear very sad to think about this, and he curled himself into a little ball. The dog looked up at him with gentle eyes and said "But bear, you're not in danger anymore." #128
129,"Amn't I?" the bear said, showing his heart. #129
130,"Of course your pain remains with you," the dog said, "but you are no longer in the danger you once were in.” #130
131,"I suppose you’re right. But still, I remain a bear." the bear replied. "I feel safe in this body." "But bear, there is so much more to life than survival, isn't there?" the dog said with concern, pointing out into the great world beyond. #131
132,"I know." the bear said quietly, hugging himself tightly. "I have been learning to love in this body. It is not what prevents me from getting close to others."   #132
133,“You see, there were good times too, even then,” the bear said, and the images on the wall changed to show the bear’s mother, holding him close. #133
134,the dog tilted its head and looked at the bear quizzically, cocking one floppy ear up with surprise."But what does, then?"  #134
135,"I'll show you." The bear goes to open the last jar of memory, one turned black with time, bubbling with the darkness within. #135
136,As he picks it up the small boy sees it and starts bawling, begging him not to open it, the scene behind him turns a dark red.  The bear shed a tear and stopped. "That. That is what prevents me."  #136
137,"What is in that jar, bear?" The dog asked in horror. #137
138,"You don't want to know. I don't want to know." The bear wept. #138
139,"Oh bear," the dog said. "You don't need to open that jar. You can be a whole bear without that."#139
140,"What do you mean?" The bear asked slowly, drying his eyes in genuine surprise. #140
141,"It is the fear that stops you, bear, not what is in the jar," the dog said, holding up the jar and showing the halo of fear around it. #141
142,"In a place that should have been safe for you, you were not safe. You were terrified, and learned to hide and protect yourself. Now you are still hiding." #142
143,"I am still hiding. Yes. But how can I unhide?" #143
144,"It will take time, Bear. But you can begin by looking around a little. Even when things are scary." #144
145,"then ask yourself - are you really unsafe right now? And you will feel the fear. And you can face that fear, and sit with that fear." #145
146,"That sounds scary," the bear sniffed, imagining having to face that fear. "Why should I do it?" #146
147,"Because being with others you love will take you to those vulnerable places, bear. And you will be afraid," the dog replied. #147
148,"I do get scared when someone gets close. And then maybe something small happens," the bear said, "and I think it's another bomb, so I put on my helmet and get ready to run." #148
149,"But it's not. You see, bear, you’re a rescue, and I know a thing or two about rescues." the little dog said with a touch of sadness in his voice. “You made it out of there, and though some of that fear will always be with you, you can learn to look beyond it.” #149
150,"A rescue…" the bear said quietly to himself. “Yes, you know, that feels really right, actually.” #150
151,"Can you promise me next time you'll take a breath and look around before you run, bear?" the dog asked softly. #151
152,"Ok." the bear smiled, wiping away a tear. "I will do that. Thank you my friend." #152
153,As they walked out of the cave together, they stopped at one last room before the entrance. The bear saw himself sleeping peacefully amongst the stars. "Hey," he said, "that's just like my dream! But instead of falling, I look so peaceful!" #153
154,The dog looked thoughtfully at the bear. "Perhaps something is shifting, or has already shifted inside you, bear." "Hmmm," the bear hmmed, unable to suppress a little smile, "Perhaps so!" #154
155,They walked out of the cave with a spring in their step. "Well," the little dog said, "What would you like to do now?" #155
156,"A friend of mine is having a birthday party nearby. I feel like I should stop by - would you like to come? I’m sure you’d be welcome." the dog had some reservations, as he didn't always feel welcome at parties, but he could tell the bear was nervous, and wanted to support his friend. "Sure, let's go!" he said. #156
157,After a long walk in the afternoon sun they came to a small pink house at the top of a big hill. Before they even got to the top of the steps a lovely bear opened the door wide. The little dog stayed close to the bear, anxious about what might happen next. #157
158,"Oh, um, hi Bearnice," the bear said shyly. "Happy birthday!" "Oh hi!" she said with genuine affection. #158
159,Seeing the dog, her expression and tone suddenly changed, "Who's this?" She asked in a less than friendly tone. The dog looked at her quietly, already feeling embarrassed. #159
160,"Oh," the bear said, happy to talk about his new friend and missing the meaning in her voice, said, "this is my friend, he just went to the cave of mirrors with me!" The dog looked up at him, still nervous, but warmed by his friend’s affection. #160
161,"Uh, I'm sorry," Bearnice said, with some hesitation, looking away from both of them, "my landlord doesn't, er, allow dogs in the house; he'll have to wait outside." #161
162,The dog looked off to the side in sadness, and the bear blinked in puzzlement. "Really?" the bear said incredulously, raising his voice a little, "but we're all animals here!" #162
163,Bearnice still wouldn’t look at them, and said a little crossly, "Yeah, it's a stupid rule, but I have to follow it, you know?" #163
164,"Well…." the bear said slowly but sternly, "he's been with me through so much; I can't just leave him out here. I'm afraid if he can't come to the party then I can't go either." The little dog looked at him with affection but said nothing; he knew what the bear was giving up for him. #164
165,"I'm sorry to hear that, bear" Bearnice said with disappointment, "but I understand. Maybe we can hang out later?"  #165
166,"Yeah, maybe," the bear said without a great deal of conviction. "Well, happy birthday, and I'll see you later."  There was an uncomfortable silence, and the new friends turned to walk away. #166
167,The bear and the little dog walked in silence down the hill, the bear deep inside his own thoughts. "That was a kind thing you did for me, bear, I appreciate it," the dog said. #167
168,The bear stopped. "No, my friend, it's basic decency. You've walked through a very a difficult journey with me and helped me through it; what kind of friend would I be if I just abandoned you?"  #168
169,"I'm glad you feel that way, bear, but you should realize that many would not do what you did." the dog said. #169
170,"Haarumph" the bear harrumphed. "I'd like to think we can all do at least that much" and started walking quickly. The little dog smiled, shook his head, and walked along, a little closer to the bear. #170
171,After a few blocks the bear slowed down. "I think I'm ready for a cup of tea at home. Would you like to join me?" the bear said, recognizing that it was a big deal for him to invite someone into his safe space. "Sure, I'd love to!" the dog said with joy. #171
172,They walked together in the warm afternoon, talking and laughing and picking flowers. #172
173,The bear got a little nervous as they got to his house. "Well, here we are," he said with a little laugh, opening the door. #173
174,"Oh, this is great!" the dog said, walking around the room and jumping into the big armchair. "Hey, that's my chair" the bear laughed, feeling his fears slip away. #174
175,"I think there's room for two. Now where's that tea?" the dog said. "Very well, very well," the bear said, and got to work preparing some cookies on a tray, with a cup for him and a bowl for the little dog. #175
176,The bear came and sat down in the arm chair, and the little dog snuggled close and had some tea. They talked and laughed through the long afternoon, and the bear felt the unusual feeling that he didn't want their time together to end. #176
177,Just as he realized this, the little dog looked up at the clock and jumped out of the chair, "Oh! I need to get home, it's getting late!" The bear sighed with a worried expression, feeling all his fears come back, "Ok, I see." #177
178,"Don't worry bear, I'll see you again soon!" the dog said with a smile. "I had a very nice time with you." The bear relaxed a little bit. "Thank you, my friend, I had a very nice time too. Do you want some cookies for the road?" #178
179,"No thank you," the dog said, "but do you want to go to the park this weekend?" "Yes!" the bear said, "I'd love to!" And with that, the dog went on his way. #179
180,The bear shut the door and sat down again in his chair. "What a strange few days it has been. Somehow, even though I'm by myself right now, I don't feel alone." #180
181,"My friends are really wonderful and kind people, and I've made some new friends like the little dog," he thought, twisting himself about on the chair. "And it has brought up so many emotions, which were sometimes a little scary." #181
182,"But maybe I need to feel those emotions to grow. Maybe I can’t just figure it out by thinking like the other challenges in my life," he pondered, imagining his little heart, so unlike a puzzle, and how frustrated he had been trying to solve it like one. #182
183,"Well," he said out loud, getting up and stretching his tired body with a big yawn, "it's time to turn in for the night; somehow though things are mostly the same, I feel like a new chapter is about to begin for me." #183
184,As he went to pick up the teapot to clean up, it was hotter than he expected, and he pulled his paw away and rubbed it. As he did, he was astonished at what he saw. "My paw!" he cried. #184
185,"The gap - it's gone!" Indeed, to his great surprise, the gap in his heart line that the rabbit had found was gone, bridged by the thin crease of a clear new line. "How can that be?" #185
186,"Maybe I'm just seeing things," the bear laughed heartily to himself, but as he washed the dishes and got ready for bed, he felt lighter and happier about the future than he had for a long time. #186
187,As he climbed into his comfy bed, he looked out the window at the stars and smiled. "Mmmmmm," he said as he tucked himself tightly into the warm covers, making the sound he always made as he was going off to sleep. "I wonder what new adventures await me tomorrow," he thought, and drifted off into pleasant dreams with a  smile on his little face. #187